In this video, you
will learn to describe
important cryptography
terms such as plain text,
cipher text, symmetric key,
public key, substitution cipher,
Data Encryption Standard.
So before starting,
one of the things we
should do is set our lexicon
or dictionary about cryptography.
So there's a couple of
key points to be made here.
Looking at this diagram,
we see Alice communicating
to Bob again.
Alice and Bob are the sender
and receiver respectively.
Alice has a plain text message
that she wishes to send to Bob.
So the plain text message
is human readable.
This is a clear text.
It can be an email,
a Microsoft Word document,
a web-page link, anything
that Alice may wish
to send to Bob.
Like I said, it can
be clear text and in
this simple form,
readable by any.
So then there's
Alice runs through
an encryption algorithm to
create the cipher-text.
So the cipher-text is
the encrypted message.
We talk about a message but
could be a Word document.
Once again, any number
of types of content.
You'll notice that Alice
has an encryption key.
So this encryption key
is designated by the letter
K and you will notice
there's a small subscript
right here that
indicates that is Alice's key.
So K_A is Alice's key.
Once again, this creates
the cipher-texts which is put on
the communication
channel and sent
to Bob who's the recipient.
Bob decrypts the cipher-text
to recover the plain
text using his
key which is
designated by K is for
key lowercase b
subscript b for Bob.
So K_A Alice's key,
K_B Bob's key.
Truly, in the center here is
the interceptor,
the eavesdropper.
Now well there's
a basic architectural difference
between two types of
cryptography architecture.
One is a symmetric key.
This is where the receiver key,
Bob's key and Alice's keys
are identical.
So in this case, K_A equals K_B.
Public-key cryptography
uses a difference of a key.
There is a secret key that
Bob has so K_A does
not equal K_B.
So let's move on and
let's take a look at
some principles of
symmetric cryptography.
Let's take some time and
investigate the principles
behind symmetric
key cryptography.
There is a couple
of architectures,
a couple of styles of
symmetric key cryptography
that we will look at.
So one of the first ones is
the substitution cipher.
So this is the equivalent of
a magic decoder warning
that we have a simple
substitution of one letter.
It's a mono alphabetic cipher
which means that we substitute
one letter to another and that
substitution does not change
for the entire message.
We'll take a look here at
a plain text or are we
just simply run a through
z and the cipher-text
is m through cube.
So m is the 13th letter
of the alphabet.
So this is k equals 13,
meaning that we'll shift
the cipher-text 13 characters to
the right in
the mono alphabetic
presentation of a through
z and our plain text
as in the example
from Alice to Bob says,
"Bob, I love you Alice,"
and the cipher-text
as you can see is nkn
and you can certainly
read the rest.
So one of the questions before us
is how difficult is it to
break this simple cipher.
Well, the answer is it's
not very hard at
all because there's
a very uneven distribution of
the use of letters in
the English language.
So we know for example,
that the letter e
occurs most frequently.
So a simple histogram
of the occurrence
of letters in the cipher
text will reveal what e is.
In this case, e will be c. So
this frequency histogram will
quickly yield the cipher-text.
So in fact, this is not
a very secure method to use it.
Now from a graphic at what
a symmetric key cryptography
architecture looks like.
So once again, Alice,
who is sending
a plain text message
and we will designate
the message as M,
encrypts the plain text with
the key especially designed
between Alice and Bob.
That's what the subscripts
of A-B indicates.
Lets go through the
encryption algorithm
to create the cipher-text.
Now look the
designation right here.
So we have the cipher-text
is identified as the key,
Alice to Bob,
parenthetically message.
So this is the
distribution that we
saw earlier with
a one-letter shift.
For example, Bob here
receives the cipher-text,
applies the decryption key
which is identical to
the encryption key.
So this is K_A-B and
recovers the plain texts.
So mathematically, the message
here is found by applying
the decryption key to
the encrypted message or
the cipher-text that Bob
has received from Alice.
So this element right here.
This is the message.
This is the decryption
key and that will
result in the extraction
or recovery of
the plain text message.
So Bob and Alice,
for this to work,
we have to share
the distribution key K_A-B.
Now the question is,
how does Bob and Alice
agree on the key value?
That is actually the weakness
for symmetric key cryptography.
The actual encryption
on that and we'll
take a look at some other methods
that are just not
Manuel alphabetic.
Well, no strong or no worse
than asymmetric or
public-key cryptography.
But the issue is,
this is about key distribution,
how does Bob get
the key from Alice?
So she could e-mail it,
but could truly
intercept that key and
then use that for
decryption of that message,
and the answer was obviously yes.
So the problem, and we'll talk
about this in more detail,
for the foundational problem for
symmetric key cryptography is
actually in key distribution.
So let's take a look there are
another symmetric key method.
We'll take a look at some of
the technology behind
[inaudible] by six.
Let's talk about DES.
So this is a IBM historical
cryptography approach.
So this was actually built to
a standard, that NIST published.
It's a 56-bit symmetric key.
So that means that the key from
Alice to Bob is 56-bits long.
When you see a 64-bit
plaintext input,
that just simply means
that the algorithm,
the DES encryption algorithm,
ingests digests text
in 64 bit chunks.
So if you had a 640-bit
plaintext message,
you'd have 10, 64-bit
groups that are going
to be encrypted.
So one of the questions,
of course, is how secure is DES,
the data encryption standard?
Well, 56-bit keys,
it like I said is
the encrypted key life.
It is a brute force
approach which
was undertaken about
several years ago,
and said this could be
broken in about four-months.
So how to defeat defeat that?
Well, change the key
every three months,
and then they have to
simply start it over.
So there's no known back door.
This has been gone through
peer review within
the cryptography community
and those people
will report on
the slightest vulnerability
in an encryption standards.
So this has never been published,
so we have a sense that there's
some strength right here.
So we'll take a look at how
to make this a
little more secure,
we could simply use
three keys on each of
these data blocks,
that's the 64-kbit that
we see coming through.
There's an architecture
called cipher-block chaining.
Let's take a look at
that briefly on the next slide.
Here on Slide 7, is an
architectural element for DES.
So there's actually you
can take a look at just do
a little finger walk right here,
that you can see that there's
a left and a right part of
the 64-bit and
those are reversed.
Then we apply 48 bits out
of the 56 bits
against this element,
and there are swapped left and
right and there's
a permutation elements.
The point being is that
there are 16 rounds of
this segmentation and encryption
per encryptions cycle
on each of the 64 bits.
So once I said earlier
we had a 640-bit input,
this would happen 10
times and we would
concatenate those tendons send
that as the encrypted message.
Following DES in
November of 2001,
NIST published a new standard.
So what we did was is that NIST
moved the ingest block
by a factor of two.
So went from 64 bits to 128 bits.
The key length move from
56 bits to these larger numbers
that we've seen here 128,
192, or 256 bits.
Why are there three?
Well, this is a user
selected key length.
Now keep in mind
the longer the key,
the more computationally
intensive the algorithm will be.
So that if we got
information that is
at one level of sensitivity
and information,
it's at a higher level
of sensitivity.
There's an argument for
using the longer bits,
the a 128-bit verses
the 64-bit makes for
a more efficient algorithm.
So if you remember on
the previous slide,
we mentioned that we had
a brute force approach
that with the high-end
computers that are
available today we
would take just a
second to find the DES key
as you can see,
moves to a 149 trillion
years for AES.
So you've seen the attraction
that brute force is essentially
off the table when it comes
to the advanced
encryption standard.
So the salient point for
this training module
is to know that
the first commercially available,
electronic encryption
algorithms, DES,
and then the second
follow one was
AES which effectively
removed brute force.